the stowage bring forth the theme of
self-control on a regular basis
Epictetus for example spoke about
abstaining from talking about vulgar
things and Marcus Aurelius points out
that we should set limits to comfort and
consumption in this video I will go a
bit deeper into the stoic views of
mastering self-control
first of all I want to thank Harrison
and arecia for supporting me on patreon
thank you guys I appreciate it
I've already talked about the usefulness
of the ability of self control which
helps want to stay away from addictive
behavior acting on impulses when it's
better not to and to stay focused on the
things that truly matter when we make
the distinction between the things in
our control and not in our control the
key is strengthening the things in our
control which is in one word our own
faculty a strong faculty ensures that we
are less likely to be enslaved by
outside forces that are not up to us
this means that impulses triggers and
temptations have less power over us
which strengthens our position in a
universe that's ever-changing this
really hit me after I recently did a 72
hour water fast during which I didn't
eat and drank only water for 72 hours
the first day was most difficult but the
second day was surprisingly blissful and
I was able to do all tasks that I would
normally do this really changed my
perception in regards to food I used to
think that I would faint if I didn't eat
for a day but it turns out that I'm
doing fine after a period of not eating
the lesson I got from this is that many
needs and desires come not so much from
the body but from certain ideas that are
ingrained in our minds for me abstaining
from food for 72 hours changed my
relationship with it I've become less
needy knowing that I'll be fine and that
I'm perfectly able to function when I
don't eat for a while the consequence I
worry less about food statesmen and
stoic philosopher Seneca reflected on
the festivities going on in the city
during which the Romans feasted got
drunk and basically indulged and
pleasure he argued that it's courageous
to not participate in these festivities
but it's even more courageous to
participate but in a different way
without extravagance
thus I assume in a sober and modest
fashion to detach ourselves from luxury
and test the constancy of the mind
Seneca gave us the following advice set
aside a certain number of days during
which you shall be content with the
Scandia stand cheapest fare with coarse
and rough dress saying to yourself the
while is this the condition that I
feared and quote Emperor Marcus Aurelius
wrote that we should set limits on
leisure time emphasizing that we aren't
made to spend our lives eating drinking
and sleeping to excess especially when
we look at the rest of the planet I
quote don't you see the plant the birds
the ants and spiders and bees going
about their individual tasks putting the
world in order as best they can and
you're not willing to do your job as a
human being why aren't you running to do
what your nature demands end quote
although I like his analogy I must add
that some animals probably aren't the
best examples when it comes to
industriousness however another argument
that marcus aurelius brings forward
repeatedly is that we should live in
agreement with nature more specifically
our human nature the guideline for this
are the stoic ethics to put it simply if
one lives virtuously one lives in
agreement with nature and vice versa
courage and moderation are two of the
four cardinal virtues and stoicism
courage is subdivided into confidence
endurance cheerfulness high mindedness
and industriousness moderation can be
subdivided into modesty seem leanness
good discipline and self-control there
are many ways to train self-control
different types of fasting are very
effective but please consult your doctor
first another way is restricting the
usage of the smartphone social media and
the Internet all together which by the
way I'm doing at the moment this video
is published or how about this method
waiting a moment in front of your dish
before you start to eat and chewing on
your food for a certain amount of times
before swallowing you'll be amazed how
difficult this is self-control makes us
familiar with the hardship that many
fellow human beings go through every day
like hunger
bad luck and working insane hours with
no vacation becoming more content with
what we have and less dependent on what
we think we need brings about a sense of
inner peace and happiness as Seneca puts
it let us become intimate with poverty
so that fortune may not catch us off
guard we shall be rich with all the more
comfort if we won't learn how far
poverty is from being a burden thank you
for watching
[Music]
you